# Chaos-based Synchronisation for Secure Wireless Communication
 
 Much research has been aimed at applying chaos theory in telecommunications in general and spread spectrum communications in particular. There are three main reasons for such interest in chaos-based communications. The first reason is related to signal masking which is achievable on a physical level for spread spectrum communications. The second reason is related to the inherent wide bandwidth that chaotic spreading codes occupy making them very suitable for wide-band communications. Finally and perhaps the most important reason is the orthogonality of chaotic spreading codes. That is, chaotic spreading codes generated from the same map with different initial conditions are orthogonal. These three features of chaotic spreading codes make them very competitive candidates for spreading code of choice in spread spectrum communications. As a result, much research has been directed at various chaos-based communication schemes.
 
 This current research presents an investigation into the modelling and performance of sequence synchronisation in Chaos-based Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum (CDS-SS) communication systems with the aims of identifying the existing gaps in research and suggesting a new and accurate modelling approach. The CDS-SS systems offer physical layer security without the need for a significant increase in computation or power requirements. This is significant when conventional encryption techniques cannot be used on secure communication systems because of their high power requirements as well as computational intensity. The main focus of this recsearch is the problem of synchronising chaos-based spreading sequences. The modelling approaches previously used for chaos-based spreading codes do not take their non-binary nature into account and are not accurate as a result. This recsearch extends the existing analysis in the literature to include CDS-SS synchronisation in presence of channel fading. Subsequently, an accurate approach is developed for modelling the synchronisation block of a CDS-SS system. This approach is based on the statistical description of chaos-based spreading codes cross- and auto-correlation functions and is termed chaos correlation statistics (CCS). To verify the validity of this approach, the acquisition stage of a CDS-SS synchronisation block is modelled using three scenarios: noise, fading and interleaving. It has been shown that the CCS method makes an accurate prediction of the acquisition phase performance for all three scenarios considered. The CCS method is also used to model a CDS-SS tracking loop statistically with high accuracy as verified by comparison with numerical analysis results. The effects of tracking loop errors and timing jitter on the probability of error have been derived for the same three scenarios mentioned above. These newly derived probability of error equations are verified by extensive simulation results. Overall it is concluded that sequence synchronisation for CDS-SS systems is possible and the CCS method is a suitable tool for accurate prediction of synchronisation performance in CDS-SS systems. Also, the CCS approach can be used in any scenario in which accurate modelling of the correlation function of non-binary spreading sequences is needed.

The results of this research have been published and cited in leading journals and conferences in the field of wireless communications, and telecommunication. A selection of the publication drafts is available in this repository. 

Subjects:
1. Sequency theory
2. Chaotic behavior in systems
3. Synchronization
4. Wireless communication systems
5. Chaos-based systems
6. Secure communications

